Welcome to Workbook 9.1.
In this workbook, we're going to prepare the rest end points for the student controller.
We're now workbooks 9.2 and 9.3 all follow a very similar theme.
And the reason we're doing this is because once we officially start our first lesson in the SQL section,
I just want to worry about the SQL portion of things.
I want this to already be set up.
Now, if you already feel comfortable with the rest and the concepts that we learned in the rest API
section, you can feel free to skip these workbooks and just launch the starter project for the first
lesson in the SQL section.
But if you want to get some more practice with rest, then feel free to follow along.
Start by launching the starter project for a book 9.1.
I've already gone ahead and done that, and this workbook starts with a note about the request mapping
annotation, which we have not covered yet.
But this is very, very useful.
What this is going to do is map any web request that starts with slash student to our student controller.
This is very useful because let's assume we have a bunch of get post put and delete operations.
If all of them happen to start with the path slash student, then instead of repeating that over and
over and over, we can just map any web request that starts with slash student to our student controller
and go from there.
All right.
Task one is we need a method that handles get requests made on slash students that returns the following
response entity name get student expects a path variable of long ID and just returns a status code of
200.
All right, I think I've memorized that.
Let me just go to my controller.
We'll say get to mapping.
And now we're going to map any request that is made on slash student slash some variable ID to the following
handler method public response entity.
This method is going to return a student that gets serialized into JSON.
Called Get student, if I remember correctly, and this expects a path variable of long ID.
So we expect the consumer to send us an identifier of type long a numeric identifier and now we're going
to return a new response entity, I believe for now we're not returning any data.
We're just going to return a status code of 200 HTTP status.
Okay.
Let me go ahead and run my code.
Now, I know we didn't write much, but let's just test every single handler method that we set up.
Looking good.
And here it tells us inside postmen to create a collection called Grade Requests.
Let me start by doing that.
Press the plus button and here I will rename this.
Two great requests.
All right.
Inside the collection, create a request called Read Student.
That's going to make a guest request.
Add a request, call it get.
Was it read student?
I think it was.
And it's going to make a great request on local hosts.
80, 80 slash student slash one.
Okay.
So this request, because it starts with slash student, it's going to get mapped to this controller
and it's going to get routed to this handler method.
Let's try it out.
Okay.
A just sends back a status of okay, that's good so far.
Let's move on to our next task, which is to set up a method that can handle post requests made on Slack
student and you'll notice that nothing comes after slash students.
So our path for the post mapping will be empty.
It will return the same response entity.
It's going to be called save student.
Whatever JSON we send through the post request will be serialized into a Java object and it's going
to return a response entity which we serialize whatever object we receive into a JSON.
All right.
So we'll say post mapping.
The request is going to be made on slash student and we don't need to put anything here.
We'll say public response entity.
It's going to be called safe students.
And now whatever payload that we receive from the post request, we're going to serialize the properties
of that JSON into a Java object.
And now we can return a new response entity.
And over here that object is going to be re serialized into JSON.
And then we'll say HTTP status created.
All right.
And now inside the Greater Trust Collection, create a request called Create Student, and it's going
to make a post request that sends whatever JSON is there.
Let's add a new post request.
We'll rename this to Create Student.
And it's going to make a request on local hosts, 80, 80 students.
It will be a post request and we're going to send over the following data.
All right.
So by virtue of sending this JSON, its properties are going to get D serialized into this Java object
because we're not sending an ID as part of the payload.
Then our set ID setter is never going to get called and the ID field for the student object is going
to remain null.
Which is why when this object gets re serialized into JSON, it sends back three properties where one
of them is null and the other two were populated.
OC looking good so far and this is what we were expecting anyways.
And now if you want to visualize how as soon as we receive the post request, a new student object is
created and each property inside the JSON based on its name, it's going to invoke one of the object
setters.
You can feel free to rerun this in debug mode, but we've already covered this in the last section,
so I'm going to skip that.
Let's just move on with this one.
The next task is to create a method that can handle delete requests once again made on slash student.
But it does expect a path variable of long ID which needs to be part of our path.
So we're going to go back over here.
We'll say delete mapping.
Whatever delete request it's going to be slash student and ID variable is going to be part of the path.
And now back here.
Whatever delete request is made is going to be mapped to a method that returns a response entity.
That Centre back initiative status code.
The method is going to be called delete student.
It expects a path variable.
Of long ID.
And right over here we're just going to say return you response entity, HTTP status, no content.
OC.
Inside the great request collection.
Create a request called delete student and make a delete request.
Sounds good.
At a request.
By the way, you'll notice that we specified this as a post request, but it still shows that it's a
get request over here.
You just need to save your file by pressing commands.
If you're using a mac or control as if you're using windows, you'll know that it was saved once the
dot is gone.
Do the same thing over here.
It's always good to save.
And we're going to call this one delete student.
And it's going to make a delete request to local host.
8080 slash student slash some ID.
Call this delete.
Let's go out and make their quest.
It should just send back a status code of no content.
Looking good so far.
And one last request is one that returns every single student that will be in our database eventually,
but for now is just going to return a response entity with no data.
So we'll say get to mapping.
It's going to expect a request made on slash student slash all.
Then I will say public response entity.
It's going to return a list of students and that list of students will get serialized into a JSON collection.
We're going to call this Get Students.
I'll import the less class.
And here I'm just going to return a new response entity with HTTP status of OC.
We're not going to be sending any data yet because, well, we don't have a database or any data set
up, but let's just set up our APIs methods.
I think that should be it.
Now we cheat to make create a new request called the Read students.
So here I'll say add request.
Reed students.
We're going to be making a request on local hosts.
88 slash student slash all.
Oh, don't forget to save this.
It should say delete OC.
Over here.
We'll make a request to slash student slash all.
And we're looking good.
Final touches save every request.
We've done that inside the grade request collection.
Create a new folder called Student and drag every student request there.
Sounds good.
This is a good way to organize our requests for later.
We'll add a folder called Students.
Oh, sorry.
Rename to students.
And I'm going to drag each request one by one.
Oh, right.
And.
Let me save that.
That should be it.
I'll see you in Workbook 9.2.